As we mentioned above,
planning the architecture for a solution that encompasses different layers,
legacy systems, and more than one actor involved is really important.
In this concept, we'll review
the Blockchain solution layers then
model a Blockchain solution with behavior and structure.
Before we begin this section,
I highly recommend that you read through what is
expected in the related project because knowing what
the project requirements are will better help you
understand how all these pieces of the course fit together.
So, let's get started by discussing the different layers that you'll
interact with in the Blockchain application solution,
or what's commonly referred to as our DApp or decentralized application.
In this simplified diagram,
this is a purely Blockchain use case in which all data is stored in the Blockchain.
Later on, we'll discuss solutions where data is stored
both in the Blockchain as well as in a traditional database.
In the back-end portion, we have
our Blockchain where the data is stored and transactions are trapped.
Coupled on that are smart contracts.
Programs that perform transactions with the ability to
act on accounts and the data that's stored in the Blockchain.
In the front-end, the application can have front-end code and
the user-interfaces written in any language that can make calls to our back-end.
In our case, we've created front-ends with our NodeJS Webserver, HTML and CSS.
So, in order for users to interact with the distributed application,
we'll be using applications such as meta mask which allow
users to run DApps specifically a theory and DApps in this case,
directly in their browser without running a full theory of node.
Now, some of you might be asking, "Well,
I can see how the back-end portion is decentralized,
but how's the front-end of this application still centralized?"
So, what's up with that?
Now, we won't be getting into this now
but what you will see later is that the front-end can
be hosted on decentralized storage such as Swarm or IPFS.
So, now that we've seen the layers of a general DApp,
let's discuss about how to model
this Blockchain solution focusing on the behavioral and structural aspects.
Remember that the same planning principles
will apply for any application that you build in the future.
When architecting an application,
it's important to consider the behavior and
structure in the real world where your application will be assisting.
Remember, at the end of the day the applications we create are simply
a technical representation of the information and entities in the real world.
Properly scoping this out is even more vital in
a supply chain where information and
goods are flowing through a number of different actors.
Let's check out a tuna fishing supply chain
example provided by the World Wildlife Foundation.
So, this is part of a pilot project used to prove
Blockchain use case in seafood traceability,
specifically for the tuna that's caught in the Fujian long line fishery.
This diagram shows what happens to a tuna as it passes from the fisher
all the way to the consumer and traces what actions each actor in the supply chain takes.
Using this example, we'll discuss
the essential components to consider in a supply chain model.
Now, the first thing we think about is the asset.
An asset is any physical or digital entity that requires tracking.
This can be real estate, education,
oil or gas, transportation, or even healthcare.
In this case, the asset is a physical entity, the tuna that was caught.
So, asset can have attributes such as ownership or who owns it,
time when it was caught,
and the location where it was caught.
In this case, as the tuna passes through the chain,
information such as where and when it was caught,
information about the fisher,
processor and distributor may need to be documented.
Next, who interacts with this asset?
Actors. So, these actors interact with
asset and transform the asset from one state to the next.
Users can participate in the audit,
review and attest to the assets validation history.
So, for each actor,
it's important to scope out their role permissions which are
specific functions such as web permissions,
which are granted to a group of users.
In our diagram, we see that each actor can take
on specific actions when interacting with the fish.
For example, the regulator does not have
the role permissions to pack and sell the fish in the application.
Like in the real world, they likely don't have
those permissions and are not qualified to do this.
Additionally, role permissions allow
the necessary information to be shown at the appropriate time.
For example, the regulator will likely need to know the name
and registration details of the fisher in order to prove the fish landing.
However, the fisher doesn't need to share such detailed information with the consumer.
Knowing the asset and the actors,
we can understand the business process.
So, this is the progression of the asset through
various steps which will be recorded on the chain for the evidence of trail.
How this translate to our application is in the business actions.
Business actions are user or machine initiated actions that
allow assets to progress from one process state to the next.
Let's see the action for each actor.
So, fisher catches the fish.
The regulator approves the landing,
which means bringing the fish out of the water and onto land.
Once the fish has been approved,
it is the responsibility of the fisher to bring the fish back onto the land.
The processor then receive the fish,
processes and packs it.
Next, it's passed on to the distributor or the retailer that sells the fish.
Lastly, our story ends with a tuna on our consumers
plate and since the bait to play history was tracked,
the consumer can rest assure that the fish
they're about to dine on was sourced responsibly.
Notice that some actors perform more than one action
and sometimes the asset is actually passed back and forth between actors.
So, breaking down the supply chain into the behavior and structure,
will help you scope out how to develop the functionality each user needs as well as
what data should be saved off and who and
when certain actors should be able to access that data.
In the following quiz,
you'll be given a simple supply chain example and have the chance to identify the asset,
business process and actors.
To recap, in this concept we covered the Blockchain solution DApp layers.
Then we modeled a Blockchain solution with the behavior and structures.
Looking at the asset and attributes,
the business process and actions,
and the actors and their role permissions.
In the next concept,
we'll be using the modeling of our behavior and structures from this concept
to create UML diagrams that will assist us to architect the technical layers.